- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we're going to configure our JSF project to support CDI,
and then we're going to create our first bean.
In order to configure our project to support CDI,
just right click on it, then click on properties,
and then within the project facets section,
on the dialogue that pops up, you'll want to check CDI,
and make sure you're using version 2.O which is the latest,
and then just hit apply and close.
And what you'll see happen is that,
within your web.XML file,
you'll get a Beans.XML file.
Currently, we're set up as an implicit archive
because we're only looking for annotated beans.
Let's change over to an explicit archive
by setting our bean discovery mode to all,
and with this, we no longer need to annotate
any of our classes in order to make them beans.
They'll just automatically be created as a bean,
when necessary,
in the CDI container.
We can close our beans.XML file,
and now we can start creating our first bean.
Our beans actually going to be an inventory service,
that helps us manage these inventory items.
So the inventory item is just a simple POJO
I've added to the project,
that allows us to track
the quantity of inventory for a particular catalog item.
You'll notice it has its own constructor
where we can pass in the different fields
in order to instantiate the object.
So let's go ahead and, we're 'going to start out
by creating an interface for our new bean,
and I'm going to name that interface Inventory Service,
and it's going to extend the serializable interface.
So with that in place, we can go ahead and hit finish,
and then on this interface we're going
to define a couple methods.
So the first method we're going to define
is the create item method,
which is going to have a return type of void.
Now the create item method is going to accept two arguments,
the first is going to be the catalog item ID,
and then the second is going to be a name.
Then the next method we're going to create
will return a long, and the method's name
is going to be Get Quantity.
So it's going to allow us to provide a catalog item ID,
and then the implementation of this method
will tell us how many of that item are in inventory.
Okay, so now that we have defined our interface,
we're going to go ahead and build
an implementation of that interface.
So I'll create a new class and I'm going to name this class
Local Inventory Service,
and then I will specify that it
implements our inventory service
and we can go ahead and build out our implementation.
So within this inventory service,
we're going to have a map with a key of long,
and a value of inventory item,
and we're going to name that map Items,
and it's going to use a hash map implementation,
so we can go ahead and import those types,
and then we're going to just do some very basic management
of the inventory in memory here, so once again,
we kind of need to create a surrogate key here
for our inventory items, so I'm just going to get a count
of the items in the map incremented,
and then we're going to place an item
in the map using the put method,
and the key will be our inventory,
item ID,
and then looking at the value,
we're going to use the inventory item constructor,
and the first argument will be our inventory item ID
that we created, the second will be the ID of the catalog
item it corresponds to, then we'll pass in the name
and finally we're just going to set
a default value for the quantity to zero.
Okay, and then our get quantity method,
we're 'going to make this really simple,
we're just going to return zero here,
because everything in this store is selling out.
Okay, so we have the implementation of our bean,
and as I mentioned, we don't need to annotate this class
like some other frameworks to make this class a bean,
by default in the bean discovery mode all,
every class is created as a bean, as required,
per the injection needs of the application.